04-06-22 - Day 4

Concepts I should be familiar with - 
1. OSI Model 
2. IP Addresses
3. MAC Addresses
4. Routing and Switching
5. TCP/IP
6. TCP and UDP
7. DNS
8. VPN tunneling
9. TLS and SSL
10. Networking Devices
11. Some more concepts of Networking.  

So how does Internet works?

We are all familiar with the web surfing, 
we will understand it with the no. of examples
The first thought that comes in my mind related to Internet is - while watching a youtube video, How it is working? How do we get to watch the video over one click??
Data center: 
The data centers contains information and data stored, and that is the source of what we get through the
internet.
well that is true. 
*But how does we receive that data?
-Do we receive the data thorugh Satallites? 
well yes we can but it will take so much time and effort if we use that medium, Satellite already is too much far from the earth, some 22000 miles. Its not the right 
way to do the process. It will cause huge latency whiich is unacceptable. 
So how do we get it?
We get it thorugh the optical fiber cable which is spread all around the world. The data is transported via the fiber route and we get the requested data from the data
center. 

Now we know how we get the data. 
But how de we exactly get the data is challenging. The data we want is stored inside the data center, it is stored in ssd inside a data center in a center, and server job 
is to provide us the data we requested. 
Lets understand the concept of IP ADDRESS.
We can consider IP Address similar to our home address, the address that uniquely identifies our home. Any lettes sent to you is precisely sent to your home address.
Similarly in the internet world the ip adress acts as a shipping address, thorugh which all information reaches its destination.
Your ISP decides your device IP Address. 
The server in the data center also has an IP Address.
Just like our phonebook- 
Each contact number has its name. why? Because we cannot remember all tha numbers, so we assign them a name and contact accordingly, 
Same goes with the website name, Each website has its own IP Address. And while requsting the data from websites, we dont use IP Addresses because its hard to 
remember so we use the URL instead. 
Just like the phonebook we have talked about the Internet also has its phonebook which is know as DNS. It stands for Domain Name System. It translates human
readable domain names (for example- www.google.com ) to machine IP addesses ( for example- 8.8.8.8) 
*Format of IP Address is X.X.X.X
where X can have value between 0-255.

so far we hve learnt about: 
we type www.youtube.com on the browser (which is domain name and also has its IP address) 
-> so we basically request the info from the data centers. 
It gets the request and send us the requested data in the form of Packets. 
the data is sent into packets. And each packet is the collection of some bits for ex 010110 ( 6 bits ) and routed thorugh our device and takes the best route available.  
The packets are sent via optical cable (from the data center to our IP address).
now the question is if it comes from the optical cable, our mobiles dont have the connection of the optical cable, how do we get the data then??
Well the optical cable is connected to the Cellular tower, and the cellular tower gets the data from the data center in the form of electromagentic waves. 
and that pretty much...

05-06-2022
I've learnt about : 1. Switch
                    2. Router
                    3. OSI MODEL
                    4. How OSI model works on YouTube
                    5. TCP/IP
                    6. What are ports?
                    7. Encapsulation and Decapsulation 


